Nginx Intro 

Developed by Igor Sysoev(Russian)

The C10K problem is the main reason why the next giant of the field, called Nginx, grabbed the stage. One fine morning in 1999, 
Dan Kegel discovered the issue that all the traditional web servers were incapable of handling 10K concurrent clients/connections and named it the C10K problem.

Open-Source in 2004

NGINX and NGINX Plus can handle hundred of thousands of concurrent connections, and power more than 50% of the busiest sites on the web.

NGINX is open source software for web serving, reverse proxying, caching, load balancing, media streaming, and more. 

As HTTP server capabilities, NGINX can also function as a proxy server for email (IMAP, POP3, and SMTP) and a reverse proxy and load balancer for HTTP, TCP, and UDP servers.

NGINX was created as Fastest Web-Server to serve the Concurrent 
Large Number of Requests. 

➤ NGINX is commonly used as a reverse proxy and load balancer to 
manage incoming traffic and distribute it to slower upstream servers. 

➤ NGINX Plus and NGINX are the best-in-class web server and 
application delivery solutions used by high-traffic websites such as 
Dropbox, Netflix. More than 400 million websites worldwide rely on 
NGINX Plus and NGINX to deliver their content quickly, reliably, 
and securely. 

➤ As a software-only open source load balancer, NGINX is less 
expensive and more configurable than hardware load balancers, and 
is designed for modern cloud architectures

➤ NGINX is a multifunction tool. With NGINX, user can use 
the same tool as load balancer, reverse proxy, content cache, 
and web server.

➤ NGINX supports micro services to HTTP/2 protocols. 

➤ NGINX is docker Friendly, which makes it first choice for 
Cloud base Applications load Balancer. 

➤ NGINX support N number of Open-Source third party 
libraries which make it more flexible and expendable.

 





Installation
HTTP Protocol
NginxLab
Configuration
Performance&Security
Reverse Proxy
Load Balancing
Cache Management
Static Assists
Access Management
Logging Management
HTTP Compression
Modular Architect
Cryptography


