➤ Protocol is a digital language through which we communicate 
with others on the Internet. 

➤ Definition : Protocol meaning is that it a set of mutually accepted and implemented rules at both ends of the communications channel for the proper exchange of information. 
➤ Each protocol is defined in different terms and different use with unique name. Message travel from sender to reciever via a medium using a protocol. 
➤ One of the most common and known protocol example is 
HTTP, that is used over the world wide web.



 
➤ Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) 
➤ Internet Protocol (IP) 
➤ User Datagram Protocol (UDP) 
➤ Post office Protocol (POP) 
➤ Simple mail transport Protocol (SMTP) 
➤ File Transfer Protocol (FTP) 
➤ Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) 
➤ Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)




➤ Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) : TCP is a popular 
communication protocol which is used for communicating over a 
network. It divides any message into series of packets that are sent from 
source to destination and there it gets reassembled at the destination. 


➤ Internet Protocol (IP) : IP is also working with TCP. The IP addresses 
in packets help in routing them through different nodes in a network 
until it reaches the destination system.


➤ User Datagram Protocol (UDP) : UDP is a substitute communication 
protocol to Transmission Control Protocol. Implemented primarily for 
creating loss-tolerating and low-latency linking between different 
applications. 


➤ Post office Protocol (POP) : POP3 is designed for receiving incoming 
E-mails.


➤ Simple mail transport Protocol (SMTP) : SMTP is designed to 
send and distribute outgoing E-Mail. 


➤ File Transfer Protocol (FTP) : FTP allows users to transfer files 
from one machine to another.


➤ Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) : HTTP is based on client 
and server model. HTTP is used for making a connection between 
the web client and web server. HTTP shows information in web 
pages. 


➤ Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) : HTTP is used for 
transferring data between the client browser (request) and the web 
server (response) in the hypertext format, same in case of HTTPS 
except that the transferring of data is done in an encrypted format